April 15, 1756.
Nawab Siraj ud-Daulah
ascended the throne of Bengal.
In Murshidabad, the air was thick
with conspiracy.
A cloud of distrust loomed large.
The prime conspirator was his
commander-in-chief, Mir Jafar Ali Khan.
Siraj had the support of Jagat Seth,
Bengal's richest businessman.
But calamity struck when Siraj,
in a fit of rage
slapped Jagat Seth in open court.
The enraged Jagat Seth decided
to join the conspirator's camp.
He convinced them
to bring about a major change,
they needed
his insightful and intelligent friend,
Krishna Chandra Roy.
Maharaja Krishna Chandra Roy
was the ruler of Krishnanagar.
To avenge his friend,
he agreed to be a discreet adviser.
June 23, 1757.
The battlefield of Plassey.
Lord Clive defeated Nawab Siraj ud-Daulah.
Jagat Seth rewarded Krishna Chandra
with gold and precious stones.
Mir Jafar ascended
the throne of Bengal.
In 1760, Mir Jafar's son-in-law, Mir Qasim
succeeded him on the throne.
Mir Qasim chanced upon a few letters
that Jagat Seth had written to Clive.
Mir Qasim suspected a conspiracy brewing
against him.
To secure his position
he murdered Jagat Seth
by throwing him in the Ganges.
Krishna Chandra was alarmed.
The wealth that he had received
from Jagat Seth
he distributed it amongst his close friends
for safekeeping.
As expected, Krishna Chandra
was taken prisoner.
Lord Clive intervened.
Mir Qasim had to release Krishna Chandra
under Clive's pressure.
Once released, Krishna Chandra
was a transformed soul.
Under him Bengal witnessed
a cultural revolution.
The righteous king never looked back
at his hidden treasures.
And with passing time, the hidden treasures
of Krishna Chandra were forgotten forever.
THE HIDDEN TREASURE
OF DURGESHGARH
Keep it carefully.
Are you from Bonpukuriya?
Let's go. Not that way.
This way.
Help me up.
This way...
Run.
Run!
Happy birthday, Jhinuk.
- Thank you, Sona'da.
- Welcome.
You are here as well?
Yeah, he told me it was urgent.
He asked me to drop everything
and come.
So where is...
Right here, Sona'da.
Jhinuk.
Aabir Lal Roy is not just a man of words
but a man of deeds too.
Follow me.
Wait... What are you doing, Aabir?
Aabir, what are you up to?
Just look at him.
What's going on?
Aabir!
Aabir, don't do this.
You can't swim.
Don't do it.
Aabir, please.
Sona'da! Aabir!
Hello...
He's outdone himself.
On your birthday, there can't be
a better surprise gift.
You knew about this?
Who me?
Well done, my boy! Great job!
Now get out of the pool.
Thank you.
Happy?
Why didn't you tell me?
Surprise.
Happy birthday!
Thank you.
Too many calories burned.
Now some calories to be earned.
Didn't I promise you, I'll learn to swim
after we got back from Manikantapur.
Did you come here
to swim or to eat?
Do you know how many calories are burnt
while swimming?
Swimming is for physical strength
and food is for mental strength.
So much for snacks?
Are you skipping her birthday dinner?
That's dinner.
This is just a snack.
Jhinuk...
Your tea.
Inspector Sarkar?
- From Manikantapur?
- Yes.
Hello. Of course, I recognise you.
How are you?
Sweet memories rush back...
Tell me.
Any problem?
- What's the problem?
- Quiet... Yeah.
I'll be at Aabir's place
in the evening.
- Ask him to come.
- Tonight?
Why don't you join us?
Everyone will be there.
Today is Jhinuk's birthday.
I'll text you the address.
Okay.
It's just us.
Don't worry about confidentiality.
Confidential!
Let's talk when we meet.
Confidential information is shared
with someone you're confident with.
- Isn't it, Aabir?
- Exactly!
Brutus!
Sona'da, you didn't ask
about Semonti Sarkar?
How's the research on Islamic history?
Have the spellings improved?
Inspector Sarkar had called to show me
an important and confidential object.
That's it.
"Maybe the thought of marriage
has crossed your mind?"
That's why you've invited her dad
for dinner.
What are you doing?
Guess who Sona'da has invited?
- Who?
Inspector Sarkar.
Has he been transferred to Calcutta
from Manikantapur?
He had called.
He wants to share something confidential
with Sona'da.
Aabir, is it another mystery?
There's mystery in History.
Mystery in History?
Isn't Sarkar's daughter
Sona's student from Oxford?
Semonti Sarkar.
Great student. Good handwriting.
Horrible spelling mistakes.
- Welcome, Professor Sen.
- Please come in.
- Welcome, Mr. Sarkar. Please come in.
- Hello. Please sit.
- How are you?
- I am well.
Brother, your son is becoming
a nitwit.
Sona'da, what book did you get me?
What a greedy girl!
Who asks for a birthday gift like this?
Since, the custom of gifting books
has almost been done away with...
Being greedy in this case is a good thing.
That's right.
But first a special birthday gift.
Wow!
Okay, happy birthday
to you once again.
- How many gifts did you get?
- Wow!
- What's your problem?
- Nothing.
'Parbani'?
It's the first children's
festive periodical.
Created by the pioneer Rabindranath Tagore.
Really? I had no idea.
Come, sit here.
In 1918, Tagore asked his son-in-law
to start the magazine.
Alright!
- So, it's been 100 years.
- That means this is an antique.
Wow!
Jhinuk, many happy returns
of the day.
- More gifts?
- Thank you!
That's a book too.
I've made up my mind.
I'll ask all the guests to gift only books
on Aabir and Jhinuk's wedding.
Please attach a list of books
with the invitation card.
So that there are no repeats.
Let's cut the cake.
Then we will take.
Jyotsna, is the food ready?
Everything from the appetizers
to dessert is ready.
I'll serve the moment you're ready.
The cake is ready too.
Jyostna, this is the best life!
Sit down.
My name is Kalnemi Kundu.
It was a difficult robbery.
How can you leave that dagger behind?
How could you just drop it?
Stealing is an art.
You've learnt nothing.
You have no dedication
towards your work.
- Kalu, that's very cold.
- Isn't it?
- I want you to feel the chill.
- No, please don't...
Hello, sir.
What are you saying?
Where do we have to go?
We'll be right there. Okay, sir.
Lyata, listen carefully.
We have to go to Ballygunge now.
That policeman is headed there.
The dagger is in the brown bag
he's carrying.
Our boss has an informer
in the police too.
Happy birthday to you!
Happy birthday, dear Jhinuk!
Jhinuk, cake is a delicious food item,
not a face cream.
Is that so?
Dad...
You'll get it.
- Sona'da...
- No, no, no...
His face looks like a volcano
ready to erupt.
Give it to him first.
Want some cake, Aabir?
Well done!
Jhinuk, you're still such a child!
It's okay.
Just a few more days.
No time to be a child anymore
after she gets married.
- Really, Aunty?
- Please explain.
I won't be able behave like a kid
after I'm married?
- Aabir, then the wedding is cancelled.
- Oh, no! What?
No, not at all.
Rai...
Please stay the way you are.
Mom, don't say like that.
The wedding menu is already fixed.
If the wedding is cancelled,
who'll eat all the food?
Nephew, are you getting married
so you can eat?
Yeah...
Here, have some cake.
Want an icecream?
Wow! This is an antique!
Might belong to royalty.
- Can I see the cover?
- Of course.
The design is on the surface.
What's inside?
The way Jhinuk writes her name
on her books
in those days, kings would inscribe
their names inside the cover.
Mehtab Chand, 1165.
- 1165?
- 12th century?
I think it's 1165 Hijri.
So, it'll be 1756.
18th century...
That's no less antique.
I see another name... here.
Durgagoti Deb Roy.
I secured this after tracking
a smuggling network for a while.
I suspect there's a big racket
working behind it.
Fill your own pockets by selling
nation's heritage.
This kind of negligence
can only be seen in our country.
What can I say?
Such royalty won't suit you people.
- Let me see it.
- Here goes...
Mehtab Chand.
Durgagoti Deb Roy.
One dagger, two owners.
Careful.
Sona, why two names?
I think the dagger belonged
to Mehtab Chand.
Either he gave it to Durgagoti
or Durgagoti Deb Roy...
Nabbed it?
The name Mehtab Chand
sounds very familiar.
But Durgagoti...
That's exactly why
I brought it to you.
Only you'll understand
the true value of this.
I'll try.
- Aabir, let me take a photo of you.
- Here, take it.
- Careful...
- With the dagger.
Stand properly.
- What happened?
- What's all this?
Head towards the dining table everyone!
We'll have a candelit dinner tonight!
Aunty, I love you!
Sona, what did I say?
Some of us behave like a child
even after 25 years of marriage.
We're keeping an eye, sir.
Yes.
We'll follow him
the moment he comes out.
Brown bag, right?
Yes, sir.
Photo?
Okay, sir... Okay...
I'll check.
Thank God!
I don't have night duty today.
Aabir, hope you're enjoying the meal.
Sona'da, please...
- Finish eating.
- Actually...
Mom and Jyotsna might feel
they've cooked in vain if I don't finish.
Hey, no one will feel bad.
Enough eating. Get up now!
Looks like he is starting dinner
all over again.
Can't I get some more...
Whose birthday is it?
You showed us something
priceless today!
I'm sure you'll begin
your investigation now.
Yes... Will have to search through reports
of missing artefacts.
- It'll be in police custody now.
- Absolutely.
- Goodbye.
- Good night.
Thank you for the treat.
- Sona, please see him off.
- Of course.
Take care.
Kalu...
Lets go.
Let's go.
- Be here on time tomorrow.
- Yes, sir.
Hey! Hey! Stop! Police!
Force! Police! Force! Hey!
It's not there?
It's not in the bag.
We checked thoroughly, sir.
It'll be in police custody
for two days?
Syata? But he works with the police.
Oh, he's your part-time informer?
Bishtu Karmakar?
Oh!
We'll get it done.
Please send me the photo.
Okay, sir.
Boss is a genius!
Guess what boss said right now?
He is planning to replace
the original dagger with a fake one.
Can you imagine?
People become smarter
once they've been abroad.
- Want to go abroad?
- No, too cold.
- Bishtu?
- What?
Need it in two days.
This? In two days?
Boss' orders.
Otherwise, the consequences
will be fatal.
We'll be back in two days.
Two days.
Tell me.
What? When did it happen?
Yes...
Oh thank God!
Mr. Sarkar, you should make arrangements
to send it to the museum.
The director himself is on leave?
What else?
Please keep it safely with you.
No, it's alright.
Okay, good night.
Maharaja Krishna Chandra Roy.
What makes him a famous king?
His famous court consisting
of nine wise men.
- Just like King Vikramaditya's court.
- Correct.
Sir, he was the patron
of great poet, Bharat Chandra Roy.
- 'Annada Mangal Kavya'.
- Yes, sir.
Sir, he had a dark side too.
In the Battle of Plassey,
he stood for Robert Clive and not Siraj.
This topic warrants discussion.
While I'm discussing the history
of Bengal's famous Durga festival
why are we remembering
Krishna Chandra Roy?
Many believe that
although Bengal's Durga festival was started
by Raja Jagat Ram Roy in the 14th century
it was Maharaja Krishna Chandra Roy
who started the present version of it.
What do you mean by present version, sir?
Define the form and structure
of the Durga idol as you know.
Goddess Durga in the middle.
Laxmi and Ganesha on her right
and Saraswati and Kartik on her left.
- The entire family appears together.
- Right.
The form was not like this before.
It used to be only Goddess Durga's
demon slaying avatar.
The family structure got added
to the demon slaying story.
This format of the Durga festival was
popularized in Bengal by Krishna Chandra Roy.
Sir, did you know
Krishna Chandra visited
Dumble's ancestral home?
- Tell him...
- Really?
The elders in the family talk about it.
- Where's your ancestral home?
- Bonpukuriya.
- Your bag.
- Just one second, sir, please.
- Sir, please come for the festival!
- Quiet.
Sir, I'm serious.
Please come.
You'll love the Durga festival
at my ancestral home.
Bonpukuriya?
It's not too far.
Just a three hour drive.
It sounds very tempting.
- But I won't be travelling alone...
- Jhinuk and Aabir will come too?
That's great, sir!
You know them too?
Of course, I do.
Who can forget the trio's discovery
of Shah Shuja's hidden treasure?
It's decided then.
It'll be a lot of fun.
Okay, let me plan it out.
I was just thinking about
your elaborate name...
Domburopani Deb Roy.
Why such a serious name?
Since we celebrate the festival at home...
We're all named after Goddess Durga
or Lord Shiva.
Please explain.
My elder brother is Dr. Pinakpani Deb Roy.
My second brother's name
is Trishulpani Deb Roy.
He lives in the US.
He'll be here during the festival.
Deb Roy?
Dumble, if you don't mind...
Is Durgagoti Deb Roy related
to your family?
Yes, sir! How did you know?
He's one of my forefathers.
We call him "Buro Thakurda Moshai",
Old Grandpa.
Krishna Chandra had visited
during his time.
That's when the festival started.
In fact, many say, Krishna Chandra
insisted Old Grandpa to start the festival.
- Can I show you something, sir?
- Let's see.
There's news about my family.
Old Grandpa's dagger
has been stolen from our home.
Inspector Sarkar?
I have good news.
I found Durgagoti Deb Roy.
- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.
It's purely coincidental.
One of my students is
his direct descendent.
The rest is easy.
They can bring some proof
and take the dagger back.
Okay, yes. Thank you.
Let me choose your outfit.
Try a sea green jeans
and a pink top.
It'll look good on you.
Impossible!
Follow me.
Plassey... Plassey... Plassey...
JAGAT SETH MEHTAB CHAND'S DECREE
Goddess Laxmi's beauty
and Goddess Saraswati's virtue.
It's nice but not festive...
It's great! Now try these.
Some requests are meaningless, yet...
Yes, Sona'da.
Wait for me at your chamber.
I'll be there by 8 o'clock.
Call Jhinuk too.
Need to discuss something important.
Festival planning.
Why meet at my chamber
when we can go to China?
Where?
Mainland China, the restaurant.
Jhinuk has been craving
Chinese food.
She hardly ever asks for anything.
You didn't go to work today either?
No, I'm at chamber only.
Aabir...
No, actually, couldn't escape
the mundane festival shopping.
Okay, I get it.
Mainland China, then.
Sharp at 8 p.m. Done.
He's deciding on the menu.
- Sona'da!
- There you are.
- So, done with shopping?
- Yes.
- Yeah, it was Jhinuk's idea.
- What?
I understand, Nephew.
Now, sit.
- Let's start with a soup?
- Yes.
Excuse me!
The reason I asked you to come here...
Thank you.
Mehtab Chand and Durgagoti Deb Roy.
I have information on both.
- Really?
- Thank you.
The person whom we know in history
as Jagat Seth
his real name is Mehtab Chand.
And Jagat Seth is not a name,
it's a title.
Jagat Seth?
The one who betrayed Siraj ud-Daulah.
Correct.
The richest banker
of 18th century Bengal.
Apparently, even the Delhi court
was funded by Jagat Seth.
And it is believed
that he was richer than
all the banks in England put together.
Are you serious, Sona'da?
That was just 250 years ago.
Bengal had the richest treasures.
Unbelievable!
And now, about the owner number two.
- Durgagoti Deb Roy.
- Yes.
He was the Zamindar of a place
called Bonpukuriya in Bengal.
And a close friend
of King Krishna Chandra Roy of Nadia.
So the dagger was passed on
from Jagat Seth
to Krishna Chandra Roy.
Then he gifted it to his friend,
Durgagoti Deb Roy.
That's where the dagger was stolen from.
How did you know?
One of my students is the youngest son
of the Deb Roy family.
- Domburopani Deb Roy.
- What? What?
And we will be in Bonpukuriya
during the festival.
What a name? Bonpukuriya.
- I told you.
- What?
How I can I wear these western outfits
during the festival?
No, never.
I'll wear only sarees
during the festival.
Two sarees a day.
So, ten sarees in total.
Poor boy... Some water please!
Bishtu!
You've crafted a masterpiece.
Let me send a photo to boss.
Hold it, Lyata.
Wow!
You're blessed as an artiste!
Lyata...
Inform Syata that we're ready
to meet Inspector Sarkar.
Boss will be there too.
- Syata?
- Yes, sir.
- Any new information for me?
- Nothing new, sir.
Sir, there's someone here to meet you.
This is Mr. Bonbihari Giri.
Hello.
Could you show him
that antique dagger you recovered?
He's just returned from abroad.
The way I bring information to you,
sometimes I help him too.
I tell you who is smuggling
and I tell him what is being smuggled.
He's a very serious art collector.
I can vouch for him.
If you could show us...
You have Syata's word, sir.
You can trust him.
Okay. Bring him in.
Please come in.
Hello.
You awake? Nephew...
Inform Jhinuk.
Tomorrow, after your swimming session
we'll reveal a new mystery.
What's in the dagger?
Wow! What's in the dagger?
Aabir Lal Roy Bahadur!
Do you recognise this?
Wow!
Thank you.
Now, see the magic.
This is when the lights were on.
And now see the magic of candlelight
when the lights went off.
- Wow, Sona'da!
- Looks like Urdu.
There was no Urdu in the 18th century.
This is Arabic.
- Am I right, Sona'da?
- Please learn from her.
Read it now.
Hope you know it's Arabic
and not Bengali.
Not as simple as A for apple.
Sona'da, it's written in Bengali.
The same style of calligraphy
that Abindranath Tagore used.
You're correct.
(gibberish)
Now do we have to learn Arabic?
Do you know how to read Arabic?
Of course, I do.
Most languages are read from left to right.
For Arabic, it's right to left.
Bravo, Abir!
Just amazing!
So read it...
Right to left.
"This immense wealth of the world
That cannot be counted"
"In many rituals,
performances and festivities"
"If you have the correct insight
The treasure of the world will be yours."
- Sona'da! Hidden treasure!
- Keep your voice low. Control. Sorry.
"This immense wealth of the world
That cannot be counted"
Sona'da, it says wealth.
Another treasure hunt?
Yes but it doesn't mean wealth
of the world.
'World' here points to the man, Jagat Seth, one
of world's richest businessmen of the time.
He had so much wealth that one could build
a dam over Ganges with it.
The British could never find the extent
of his wealth.
The dagger is still
with Inspector Sarkar.
Can we see it again?
Yes, please, Sona'da.
Please come in.
Extremely sorry to disturb you.
No problem at all.
Can we see that royal dagger again?
Certainly!
But first, what will you eat?
- Fish fry?
- No, no...
Please don't order for any food.
We are very full, right, Jhinuk?
Sure. Please sit.
What's wrong?
What happened?
Sit quietly.
What are you doing?
- Sona'da?
- Quiet.
- Semonti Sarkar.
- He can hear you.
- Shimla.
- What?
- That was taken in Shimla.
- Oh, okay.
There it is.
- Here.
- Thank you.
Can you switch off the lights?
- Want to show you something special.
- Oh really?
- This is not the real dagger.
- What do you mean?
An inscription glows in the dark
on the real dagger.
They've seen that in the photograph.
That means the real dagger
has been stolen?
There's only one problem, Mr. Sarkar.
No one will believe you.
Your informer must have brought
the thief here.
- Yes but believe me...
- I do, but that's not important.
The dagger wasn't just an antique.
It's value...
What should I do now?
I have no idea.
Don't worry.
We'll see what can be done.
- One more thing.
- Yes?
Don't inform anyone just yet.
Sona'da, Jhinuk, Aabir
The trio is back
On a quest to find hidden treasure
"The endless path is charted out
For the two of us, the lovers of wind."
Rabindranath Tagore's famous poem.
Please drop me off here.
Jhinuk just wants the two of you to go.
Rubbish!
The poem is over.
So am I.
Hunger makes the world
seem prosaic.
How far is Bonpukuriya?
I'm really hungry.
Half an hour at this speed.
How did you know?
Speedometer says 60 KMs.
And milestone says 30 KMs away.
- Welcome, sir!
- Thank you.
My brother.
Hello, I'm Dr. Pinakpani Deb Roy.
Dumble's elder brother.
Subarna Sen. Jhinuk.
And this is Aabir.
Hope you didn't have any trouble
finding the place.
- Not at all.
- I'm very hungry.
This looks like a palace.
You've maintained it really well.
Unbelievable!
It's like maintaining an elephant, Subarna.
Manohar, please put the gentlemen's bags
in the guest house.
- The guesthouse is kept prepared for you.
- Okay.
Lokhhi, please take madam's bags
to Aunt's room.
- Hope that won't be a problem.
- Nope.
Aunt is great at conversations.
Time just flies with her.
Let's go in.
Come.
Aunt's room.
This way.
- Please come in.
- Of course.
- Beautiful!
- This way.
Have you noticed the lion's face?
Looks like horse.
Tintin has Snowy, Chhota Bheem has Jagoo,
Goddess Durga has Simba.
- What's your name?
- Adrish Deb Roy.
- What is your name?
- Sona'da.
That's Aabir and this is Jhinuk.
Have you watched Spiderman?
Peter Parker.
Remember how many arms
Doctor Octopus had?
Goddess Durga has many arms too.
But Doctor Octopus used his powers
for evil deeds.
But what does Goddess Durga do?
- Defeated evil Mahishashur with a... Bang!
- Oh my God!
Then Goddess Durga is also an Avenger.
- Yeah.
That's Kucho,
my second brother's son.
They live in Atlanta.
- They got here yesterday.
- He's very sweet.
Pinakpani, don't mind me asking this.
Are you Vaishnavas,
followers of Lord Krishna?
No, we are Shaktas,
followers of the feminine energy.
Why do you ask?
Then the lion's face should have been
like a lion.
But that's a Vaishnava lion.
It has the face of a horse.
The story goes...
The festival in this family was initiated
by Krishna Chandra Roy
with his friend and our Old Grandpa,
Durgagoti Deb Roy.
That's why, just like the traditional Krishnanagar
idol, this lion also looks like a horse.
Did you know?
Oh, no! What are you doing?
Once Mother Goddess arrives home,
you shouldn't touch anyone's feet.
Our Aunt brought us up.
That's enough.
You've travelled a long distance.
You must be hungry.
Freshen up.
Jhinuk, you'll be staying with me.
Hope you don't mind.
That's fine.
I'll feel at home.
You're really sweet.
- What is it?
- I'm very hungry, Aunt!
Have your food
and come to the courtyard.
We'll be putting the weapons
on the goddess.
Then Damodar Kirtaniya will sing
our traditional song.
- Kalu, have you brought the weapons?
- Yes, Aunt. It's all here.
Have you seen the photograph?
And the hairstyle?
U-cut.
There are only two UKs for Bengalis.
Before the Independence,
it was United Kingdom.
And after, Uttam Kumar, the superstar.
If we didn't come here, we'd have missed
the real flavour of the festival.
We'll be eating bhog,
the offerings, all day.
Are you ready, sir?
Jhinuk is really funny.
She said ask the foodie to get ready
quickly or the festival will be over.
Foodie!
- Let's go, Sona'da.
- Yeah.
Let's go, sir.
Jhinuk! Jhinuk!
This is not right.
You called me a foodie?
That I don't...
Great!
Speechless?
Was I wrong?
Don't you take a long time
to get ready?
Yes.
- Aren't you a foodie?
- That gives me food for thought.
See Sona'da, how he changed the topic?
He's Mr. Lawyer, after all.
This way, sir.
Sir, enjoy your meal.
I'll be right back.
Go ahead.
Fried bread, semolina porridge...
And you must try the sweets.
It's all homemade.
Moni, this is Sona'da and Aabir.
Moni is Pinku's wife
and Rini is Kucho's mom.
You two look perfect together.
Everything is cooked in low cholestrol oil.
You can eat without worrying.
I don't think that's a concern for him.
Eat up.
If it's eaten hot
it has no ill effects.
Then please start eating.
- You must finish it all.
- Of course.
- Jhinuk, come with us.
- Yes.
- Nephew...
- Strong data base.
Moni and Rini.
Pinakpani is now Pinku.
She's even wearing matching clothes
with Kucho.
Isn't it great?
I was thinking if Dumble...
Fluffy fried breads taste great.
- And these soggy ones are great too.
- Correct.
Soggy fried breads are not called 'luchi'
in Bengali.
It's called 'nuchi'.
Pinku, when will you rectify
your childhood mistakes?
What mistakes?
The conch will be in the top left hand.
And the disc in the top right hand.
As much as you may scold me,
Shuli never bothered to learn at all.
Oh, wow!
Uncle, as a child
you made mistakes too?
Kucho, you've been spared
from Aunt's wrath.
I still can't get over it.
Grand Aunty, did you have a temper?
Is that what you think?
Not at all.
Oh Mother!
Take the plunge with Goddess Durga's name
on your lips
Sit, sit, sit.
- I can't...
- Don't say no.
You should accept the
gifts from your elders.
Wear it. You'll look very pretty.
Go on.
There you go.
Let's see.
Wow! So beautiful!
Will the lake of the heart be empty
if there's no treasure in its depth?
Even your tears will gleam
like precious stones
Will the lake of the heart be empty?
Krishna yearns to return home
Uma shares his grief
For her festival may remain unattended
Krishna brings Uma back as Jagadhatri
Forgive us for not inviting you
in Spring, oh Goddess
In an untimely celebration
Durga celebrates Durga
Will the lake of the heart be empty?
- Aunt.
- Yes?
This song was written by
Durgagoti Deb Roy, isn't it?
Yes. Old Grandpa was very talented.
He used to write songs, compose music...
He was a prolific painter too.
He went to art school in England.
England.
How did you know
that he had written the song?
Back in those days, the writer would always
mention his name at the end of the song.
- "Bhonita"!
- Correct.
Didn't you hear the song?
"Forgive us for not inviting you
in Spring, oh Goddess."
"In an untimely celebration
Durga celebrates Durga."
Which means Durgagoti is celebrating
the Durga festival.
- Am I right, Aunt?
- Absolutely!
Back then, many people were affected
by chicken pox in Spring.
That's why they shifted the time
of the festival.
And started celebrations in Autumn.
It's better not to celebrate
in the time of disease.
That's so wonderful!
Did you get the hidden story
in the song?
Oh right, you two were busy...
Sona'da, please...
What happened was...
Krishna Chandra was imprisoned
under the pretense of defaulting taxes.
The very Durga festival he started
he couldn't celebrate
because he was in prison.
And that made him really sad.
"Krishna yearns to return home...
Uma shares his grief
For her festival may remain unattended."
When he was finally released,
the time for the Durga festival had past.
That's why he started the Jagadhatri
festival in Krishnanagar on a large scale.
We're familiar with the Jagadhatri festival
in Chandannagore.
It's very popular in Krishnanagar too.
"Krishna brings Uma back as Jagadhatri."
Mehtab Chand Jagat Seth...
Maharaja Krishna Chandra...
Durgagoti Deb Roy.
They are all connected with...
that dagger!
"The treasure of the world will be yours."
Where?
In Bonpukuriya?
Good evening.
What's the matter?
So, what brings History Professor Subarna
Sen to this obscure village, Bonpukuriya?
You must be following the rubbish rumour
about Raja Krishna Chandra's treasure.
Great.
Keep looking.
It'll be great if you could find it.
All the best!
I'm Trishulpani Deb Roy.
I'm the second son of
this illustrious family.
So silly!
Thank you.
Please begin.
These are all traditional recipes
of our family.
Saffron rice, aubergine in yogurt
and sweet dumplings in milk.
I'm not letting you off
till you finish it all.
Make sure they finish.
Eat up.
- Let's go.
- Don't feel shy.
You live in Atlanta, right?
- Kucho, finish your dinner!
- I'm not hungry.
And you came back from UK?
Strange.
We had a popular song as kids.
"India is synonymous to the Sun".
But now the country is synonymous
to four other factors.
Pollution, corruption,
reccession and manipulation.
Are you saying
these don't exist in the US?
Why won't it? But at this level,
I don't think so.
I see it differently though.
Tradition, devotion...
Imagination and great unification!
Your ancestor, Durgagoti Deb Roy.
He had been to England too.
But he came back to India
after his education.
He returned to his roots.
And how did it benefit him?
He was Raja Krishna Chandra's best friend.
So? Does history remember him?
See if you find his rumoured
hidden treasure in this house.
We've invited sir here.
Yeah... oh...
Basically, they are using you.
Good, great plan!
Wish you success.
Don't forget my share, brother.
- Don't steal it.
- Shuli! What are you saying?
I prefer being direct.
I call a spade a spade.
Don't discuss things
you don't understand.
That's what I do, don't I?
You're celebrating
the great Durgagoti's Durga festival.
You're feeding numerous people.
You're paying for the employee's
families... Organising musical soirees...
Pointless investments.
Contributing to the festival
is an investment for you?
Not only investment, brother.
Zero return investment.
Are you doing it on your own?
Then why are you involving me?
Please go ahead without me...
If you can manage this huge event
without me, please do it.
Count me out next year onwards.
Hey, Shuli!
- Please eat...
- Sorry, sir.
- It's okay.
- Please don't mind, Subarna.
There's some trouble in Shuli's office
back in the States.
- He's really under pressure.
- No, it's fine.
He's really not like this.
Don't try to cover up for him.
He wasn't like this
when he was here.
He has forgotten his roots
since he moved abroad.
Shuli is probably right.
The rituals and traditions
of the Deb Roy family.
These haven't changed.
It takes a lot of effort
to abide by them.
Are you talking about anything
in particular?
Quite a few things, sir.
The craftsmen who make the idols...
The artistes who paint the backdrop...
The drummers, the cooks, the singers...
They've been working with our family
for generations.
And according to Durgagoti's will
each of them are still paid expenses
every month.
So you can understand.
That's quite something.
For you, a family means a husband,
a wife and a child.
For us it was the entire extended family.
And for Durgagoti, his subjects
and employees were also his family.
Nowadays, it's just each to his own.
Try these sweet dumplings.
You won't find it in Kolkata.
Pickles?
- Aunt?
- Do you want some?
Please go ahead.
Pickled berries!
What are you doing
with the clove, Aunt?
Once I prepare the beetleleaf...
I'll use the clove
to hold it all together.
We're doing the bathing ritual for 'Kola
Bou', the Banana Tree Bride at dawn.
- Are you coming?
- Of course.
- Will Aabir join us?
- That sleepy head?
Let me find out.
Hi, Jhinuk. Tell me.
Sona'da?
Yes?
Will you join us for the rituals
in the morning?
Certainly.
And Mr. Sleeping Beauty?
Will he join us?
He's posed like the reclining Krishna
right now.
I'll try.
Aabir...
Will you go for the Banana Tree
Bride's rituals tomorrow morning?
Whose bride?
Lord Ganesha's bride.
Are you coming in the morning?
I'm not interested
in other people's brides.
Do you even know the ritual?
Do you?
Don't worry. I'll bring him
with me tomorrow.
When are we leaving?
One minute.
Dil Dighi is quite far.
Say around 5 a.m.
Okay. Around 5 a.m.
Done. Good night.
Good night.
Kans grass have bloomed along the path
Clouds adorn the blue skies
White clouds glide like waves in the sky
The river dances past
Flowers of Autumn bloom
A bride is going to take a dip
in 'Dil Dighi' lake
In a bid to appease Lord Ganesha
And to seek his blessings,
the family prays to him
Dressed up as a bride
'Kola Bou' is given a bath
Lord Ganesha's wife is placed beside him
Kans grass have bloomed along the path
Clouds adorn the blue skies
Sir?
Right here.
Any news?
Well, sir...
Can I tag along with you
to abroad this time?
We'll see.
Let me take care of things here first.
Keep an eye on Subarna Sen
and company.
The nose ring on Goddess Durga
has a real diamond.
So what?
Diamond... Nose ring...
Hey, that's holy...
Don't mention it ever again.
Subarna Sen must have sniffed
something out.
But before he can find out...
Hidden treasure?
They are coming this way...
Leave.
What?
Leave...
Lord Ganesha's wife is placed beside him
What are you doing here so early?
Went for a jog.
You guys carry on.
I'll be at home.
Let him be.
Let's go.
Hey, Damodar!
Time to start the real song!
To get the blessings
from the one who faces South
Walk along the wall on the East
Look where the Sun sets
Don't meander away
Durga, the destroyer of obstacles
Durga, the Goddess of the Universe
Rise Mother Goddess!
Durga, the destroyer of obstacles
Hey, Dumble.
Why did we come this far
when there's a river next to the house?
Another one of Old Grandpa's instructions.
The ritual must take place here.
Halfway there you'll find the steps
Descend to the water's edge
The depth calls out to take a plunge
Have faith in the Goddess
and take a dip
The depth calls out to take a plunge
Have faith in the Goddess
and take a dip
Swim to Kailash The heart of the
lake hides the stone you seek
Durgagoti says don't indulge
in your desires
Is this just a song?
What?
Which direction is East?
East? Sun rises in the East.
But if that is East
then the song doesn't make sense.
Sun and song are not going along?
If the Sun's zone
doesn't match the song's tone
Jagat's wealth can't be found.
(chanting)
Should we get more sweets?
Have you seen 'Kola bou's coyness?
Have you seen Ganesha's tummy?
Now let's memorise the song.
"To get the blessings from the one
who faces South."
"Walk along the wall on the East."
Aunt, this song is very interesting too.
Yes, this was also written
by Old Grandpa.
Yes, it's there in the song's last line.
"Durgagoti says don't indulge
in your desires".
Now sing it.
"To get the blessings from the one
who faces South".
"Walk along the wall on the East."
"Look where the Sun sets."
What's all this?
Why are you teaching him
these silly songs?
Shuli!
This is our traditional song.
Everyone should learn it.
You've learnt it too.
Won't I teach it to the youngest member
of the family?
I learnt it as a kid.
So what?
Worthless rituals
and meaningless songs.
Papa, I love the song.
Meaningless?
Didn't you record the song?
Come here.
Stop talking and come here.
Do you remember
what your mother used to say?
Nothing in life is meaningless!
Every mother says that, Aunt.
Actually, it was Rabindranath Tagore
who wrote it.
- Apu!
- Dumble!
How are you?
What's up, Shuli?
- You're here too.
- Yeah.
Wonderful! Let's go.
How are you, Aunt?
Finally you remember your aunt?
- How have you been?
- Fantastic! Fabulous! Amazing!
Now the family seems complete.
Do you know them?
Subarna Sen.
This is him.
Subarna Sen! Oh wow!
Oxford! Shah Shuja's hidden treasure!
My God! What good fortune!
- Hello.
- Let me introduce you.
Apu aka Aparup Chandra.
Famous jewellers, Chandra and Sons...
He belongs to that family.
- He's a real jewel!
- Not at all.
I'm the black sheep of the family.
Since I hated the family business
my father turned melodramatic.
"Aren't you ashamed of yourself?", he said.
He almost disowned me.
It was my mother's tears that...
And you spent your entire life
in academics.
Bonpukuriya is my home.
And that's why I never miss
this family's Durga festival!
He's a true entertainer!
Aunt considers him as
the eldest son of our family.
Leave all that. I'm hungry.
First tell me what's there for breakfast?
Fried bread, potato curry,
brinjal fritters and sweets.
- I'm Aabir.
- Extraordinary!
All great men think alike...
Especially foodies!
It's going to be great fun!
Food for thought with you
and food to savour with him.
Badaboom!
(chanting)
Give me your phone.
Hope there's mutton for lunch.
Today there's only vegetarian food.
Delicious jackfruit curry today.
Just try it, Aabir.
The true Bengali delicacies
are the vegetarian dishes.
But you won't know it
unless you dig in.
They have 'tasteless boil'.
We have 'tasteful oil'.
The entire community is on a downward
spiral for this food fanaticism.
Bengalis don't just eat food.
They are true connoisseurs.
In every sense of the word.
Badaboom!
The jackfruit curry was truly delicious.
Didn't I tell you a little
extra oil makes it tastier.
Did Durgagoti build this house?
Yes, certainly.
Not an easy task.
Krishna Chandra visited with
Gopal Bhar and poet Bharat Chandra.
And started the Durga festival here.
- Okay...
- Really...
Difficult to believe that Gopal Bhar
and Siraj ud-Daulah were contemporaries.
There are many examples like this.
Do you know that poet Nazrul Islam
was younger than poet Jibananda Das?
- What?
- Or...
Vidyasagar and Queen of Jhansi
were contemporaries.
You know Jhinuk,
we call this mental mapping.
The entire map is etched in our head.
Krishna Chandra came to this house?
Not here exactly.
Professor, have you heard
of Durgeshgarh?
Where is that?
Is it in Rajasthan or Gwalior?
That's the problem right there.
That's mental mapping again.
The name suggests
central or western India.
But Durgeshgarh is right here.
It's the other side of Bonpukuriya.
Say Murshid Quli Khan...
He renamed Maksoodabad
to Murshidabad after himself.
Like Siraj ud-Daulah
after Alivardi Khan
renamed Kolkata to Alinagar.
In the same manner, Durgagoti
constructed a huge palace here
and named it Durgeshgarh
after himself.
But no one in the family mentions the name
during the festival.
- Why?
- The matter...
Once there was a huge earthquake
during the festival.
The palace was destroyed.
Old Grandpa and his family
somehow escaped.
Thereafter, Durgagoti built this palace.
I see.
Can we visit Durgeshgarh?
Why not?
But there are some rules
in this house.
We can visit once the festival is over.
Where is the exact location
of this place?
- Where 'Kola Bou' was bathed.
- Dil Dighi lake?
It's on the other side of the lake.
- Did you notice a old wall?
- Yes, yes, yes.
That was the boundary
of Durgeshgarh.
Correct! The Sun is finally
matching the song.
- Can we go there?
- Apu can take you.
He is the walking encyclopedia.
So, should we include him
in our team?
Is there any confusion?
I'm already in.
Let's go.
"To get the blessings from the one
who faces South".
The Durga idol of the Deb Roy mansion
always faces South.
Right.
To get Durga's blessing one must
"walk along the wall on the East".
That means we have to follow
the wall on the East.
"Look where the Sun sets".
That means we have to look
to the West.
"Don't meander away."
Go straight. Come, come.
This is so exciting!
The dagger holds clues.
Even Damodar Kirtaniya's song
is a riddle.
- We've been such fools.
- We always knew the song.
- But never understood it's true meaning.
- Come on.
"Halfway there, you'll find the steps".
These are the steps.
"The depth calls out to take a plunge".
"Have faith in the Goddess
and take a dip".
Which means we have to dive underwater.
"Swim to Kailash".
- Kailash?
- Yes, to the North.
You have to swim towards North
under the water.
- So, "lake of hearts" is Dil Dighi lake?
- Correct.
- Sona'da, should I dive in?
- No, control.
Not now. We'll come back in the evening.
When the rest of the people will be busy
with festivities...
Sona'da, what's the connection
between the Sun and the song?
Very simple.
This wall faces West of Bonpukuriya
but from Durgeshgarh it faces East.
Durgagoti wrote this song
when he was in Durgeshgarh.
The entire map has flipped, Jhinuk.
Nephew, the Sun and the song
are in the same zone now.
So...
Sona'da, I'm ready.
- I can see that.
- I'll dive into the water.
- Why do you want to risk it in the dark?
- Please, please, please...
- I'm there.
- Please let me do it.
Let Jhinuk see that I don't just
earn calories but burn them too.
- Subarna!
- Relax.
I hear you've made a discovery!
- We're very excited!
- Thank you.
Off to another expedition?
Not him. I am.
- All the best.
- Thank you.
Dumble, let's get going.
- Dumble, take care of them.
- Of course.
- Let's go.
- Jhinuk is here too.
Are you ready Micheal Phelps?
Michael Phelps?
Let's go.
- All the best!
- Thank you, sir.
Hello.
Let's meet by the river
On this moonlit night...
Here you are.
Autumns in the Bengal country side
can be quite chilly.
Please be careful.
Drink this decoction up.
- The same old mixture...
- Drink up.
- What happened?
- What's wrong?
It's too bitter.
Apu has the same concoction for everthing
starting from headache to heartache.
Dumble, talk to me.
I'm the one diving in.
And don't talk about something
you don't understand.
Herbs are the answer to all ailments.
Sir, should I go in too?
- No, no...
- No point crowding the place.
- No need. You'll ruin your curls.
- What is this?
Aabir, listen.
According to Durgagoti's hints...
You have to swim North
which is this way.
You'll find a stone there.
I'm here if there's any trouble.
Listen, are you sure?
Sure.
Aabir!
Keep this and be careful.
Don't worry.
All the best.
Be careful.
- Kailash is that way
- Yes, that way.
All the best!
- Sona'da?
- Aabir!
Aabir!
There he is!
- Aabir!
- Come out.
- Watch your step.
- Hold his hand.
- Give me your hand.
- What happened?
- A golden conch.
Let me see.
- Are you okay?
- Yes, I'm okay.
- Sona'da, golden conch.
- Very good. Very good.
Somebody attacked me underwater.
- Which is why I warned you not to go.
- I gave it right back to him.
First, you need to dry up.
Sona'da, the stone underwater...
I'll listen to you later.
Let's first get out of here.
Let's go.
You can talk later.
My house is close by. Let's go there.
Dumble, go home.
Tell them, they're at my place.
Let's chat over some coffee.
- Let's go...
- Good thing I got extra clothes.
Hurry up.
(singing)
- Change your clothes.
- Okay.
Please come.
He's like a talisman in my family.
His grandfather
was my grandfather's coachman.
And now Nakul is my driver.
He's getting fatter by the way.
- Nakul, keep practising.
- Sir.
Not sure it'll help
but you might lose some weight.
Please come in.
Bolai, bring some coffee.
Got some very good coffee from Brazil
this time.
What is it?
Okay, I'll look into it.
What's happening, brother?
What are your guests up to?
Are they here trying to find
our hidden treasures?
- Brother?
- You're back.
Where were you?
I was with sir and Apu.
Everyone is at Apu's place now.
- We had just gone out.
- Are you satisfied?
Apu and Subarna Sen.
Great that they have found each other.
- Shuli!
- Apu is going to lose his brain too.
Tell him your secrets.
I'm leaving.
What happened there?
- Lots happened. Let's go to Aunt's room.
- Let's go.
I shouldn't have let you dive alone.
No, it's okay.
But how did the information
about our expedition leak?
- Sona'da...
- So, what did you see underwater?
"Ensure that Goddess Durga's family
is kept together
"Keeping her in centre and her kids
on either side
"If you've seen the Goddess' backdrop
Check the painting in it too
"How it all comes together
To become one whole".
See Sona'da, Mr. Lawyer's TMT factor.
TMT?
Total Mugging-up Theory.
But very well done.
This poem of Old Grandpa is fantastic.
"How it all comes together
To become one whole".
The entire family is bound against
a singular backdrop.
Durga in the centre
holding the family together.
She has Lord Shiva watching over her.
He is the typical reluctant husband.
Her kids are by her side.
One son is a sportsman
and the other one is a foodie.
One daughter keeps count
and the other one studies.
Not just human figures.
Lion, bull, owl, rat, swan, peacock,
and even a banana plant.
All living elements have been included
within a singular backdrop.
And look at the food chain also.
Peacocks and snakes,
hunter and prey.
Lion and bull, hunter and prey.
Owl and rat, hunter and prey.
Three sets of hunters and preys
yet there's beautiful harmony.
There's the eternal fight between good
and evil. There's women empowerment.
But still good means white
and black means bad.
This is not good.
Jhinuk, whether it's a British colony
or an Aryan settlement...
the disparity between
black and white remains.
"How it all comes together
To become one whole".
You know what I think, Professor?
Goddess Durga's entire family
was bound within a single backdrop.
Now in modern depiction, it's split
into individual backdrops for each.
Just like our joint families
are breaking into nuclear families.
Goddess Durga's family is breaking up too.
The "one whole" is falling apart.
When our society is falling apart how will
Goddess Durga's family stay together?
Anyway, thank you for the coffee.
- We'll take your leave.
- Yes, better get going.
I'm sure they are quite tensed.
Jhinuk, that conch is the hidden treasure.
Keep it safe.
I'll take a better look later.
But the real treasure is getting together
during the festival.
It's all about having a blast.
Hail Goddess Durga!
- Subarna?
- Blessings from Goddess Durga, Aunt.
Your 'Kola Bou' song.
It was actually Durgagoti's clue
to finding the hidden treasure.
I believe...
He has kept the clues hidden in the rituals
and traditions of your family.
Suddenly, I remember a game
my granny taught me.
A lot like the "Ring around the roses".
Come friends, let's dance together
Let's sing together and make merry
We'll celebrate Durga festival
To seek Black Moon's emerald
Show empathy
Or it vanishes!
My grandmother also mentioned...
this rhyme was written by Old Grandpa.
Wow! Clues for the treasure
hidden in a rhyme?
Correct.
Dumble, what do think
"Black Moon's emerald" is?
Sir, Lord Krishna was referred
to as Black Moon.
Not in this case.
Your family follows Shaktism,
so there can't be a Krishna reference.
Yeah, that's true.
Black Moon literally translates
to Krishna Chandra.
- Wow!
- Oh yes!
Looks like his brain has freshened up
after the dip in the water.
Exactly!
So the rhyme is referring to
Krishna Chandra's wealth.
Krishna Chandra went against Siraj
in the Battle of Plassey.
And Jagat Seth bestowed riches
on him in return.
But when Mir Qasim ascended the throne
after Mir Jafar...
He murdered Jagat Seth
without any notice.
So Krishna Chandra knew he was next.
That's why a huge part of his wealth
and jewels
he hid with his good friend,
Durgagoti Deb Roy for safekeeping.
Here... In Durgeshgarh.
Oh my God!
That means Krishna Chandra didn't just
come here to start the Durga festival.
He had come here to keep his wealth safe.
Exactly.
Dumble, next question.
What comes first to our mind
when we think of hidden treasure?
- Gold coins.
- Yes...
But according to Aunt's rhyme,
it's gems and jewellery in this case.
"Black Moon's emerald."
Jagat Seth was the only registered currency
converter in Bengal.
The mint was his too.
So, for business transactions
with foreigners
Jagat Seth used to convert their gems
and jewels to currency.
That's how his treasury got filled up
with gems and jewels.
He gifted his jewels to Krishna Chandra
who then kept it with Durgagoti.
The rhyme is almost forgotten.
With it the hints too.
Aunt, if we keep losing
our cultural inheritance
the hints for the hidden treasures
will also be forgotten.
So teaching our traditional songs
to our kids is a trick.
The clues will be passed on
from one generation to the other.
And if it's not taught,
the clues will be lost forever?
- Grand Aunty!
- My cutie!
Okay.
Boss is a genius!
Everything about him is so dramatic!
Guess what he said?
He is asking
if diving gave you cold feet.
Oh Lyata!
We need that golden conch, dear.
Kalu, I'll not leave that lawyer in peace.
Are you really feeling cold?
Good.
Yes.
I don't know
why it's being repeated?
What?
Hey!
Stupids!
Yes, I can hear you.
For your homecoming, Mother
I had lights all over
Heartbroken I've put them out
Now that you are leaving
For your homecoming, Mother
I had lights all over
Heartbroken I've put them out
Now that you are leaving
As you return to Kailash
Leaving us behind
My heart still yearns
to stay with you longer
All that remains is the empty backdrop
And a lonely lamp
How you light up our lives
The drums play a melancholy rhythm
For your homecoming, Mother
I had lights all over
Heartbroken I've put them out
Now that you are leaving
Let me adore you one last time
before I bid adieu
We will wait for your homecoming
next Autumn
- Season's greetings, Jhinuk!
- To you too...
- May I come in, Nephew?
- Come... Why not?
- I didn't want to interrupt...
- Sona'da...
Season's greetings!
You must touch my feet.
No way.
I wish you two all the best.
I wish Aabir gets to eat everything
on his wedding menu.
May Jhinuk submit
her research papers soon.
May the supervisor create less trouble.
And please...
Please go to your chamber
a bit more.
Yes!
I wish Semonti Sarkar stops
making spelling mistakes.
And she comes back to country
to meet her professor.
May be she can give him a hug too.
- Excuse me?
- No, it's up to you.
Now, go look
at the backdrop properly.
Go on.
Lord Shiva in the middle
with his bull, Nandi.
Ganesha is on Goddess Durga's lap.
And the rest of it is filled with pictures
of demons being slayed.
But Sona'da, this is completely different.
This has a painting of a lake,
river and houses.
That's impos...
"If you've seen the Goddess' backdrop
Check the painting in it too".
"How it all comes together
To become one whole".
Aunt!
The backdrop?
Dharmadas Chitrakar paints it every time.
His family has been doing it
for generations.
He'll know for sure.
How long have you been painting
the backdrop?
Since forever, sir.
I've seen my father and grandfather do it.
I follow them.
My grandfather is still alive
but he is blind now.
And he's a little crazy...
Why? Why should I tell you?
You'll take photos.
And write books.
And we'll continue living
in the darkness.
We imagine but you only make plans.
Get out of here.
But...
Grandpa...
Please tell us.
Who drew the first backdrop
for the Deb Roy mansion?
It's very important, you know.
Old Grandpa!
He's the one who gave the painting
to my grandfather's grandfather.
One morning, he brought a painting...
and said...
Brahmatosh!
Yes, my lord!
I want you to paint this
on the Goddess's backdrop.
I'll make sure
that you'll never be displaced.
You teach this to your son.
And your son will pass it on to his son.
We'll follow the Krishnanagar style
for the idol.
But the backdrop will have my painting.
What do you think?
You're a painter, so am I.
My goodness!
That means this is a map.
- Map?
- Yes.
This is the Bonpukuriya Palace.
Season's greetings!
- Apu, this is a map.
- Map!
- Map?
Yes, see for yourself.
Bonpukuriya's Palace.
That's the tomb.
Riverside, boundary wall...
And beyond that...
That's Dil Dighi lake.
- Is there a forest around?
- Yes, there is.
- Yes.
And that's Bhalook Dungri.
Right there is the Durgeshgarh Fort!
And Raja Krishna Chandra's statue.
And the tank!
Great technology, you know!
Water never dries up!
Wow! A tank that never runs out of water?
Can we go there?
I know it like the back of my hand.
Let's go!
What turn of events!
The backdrop has turned into a map!
Badaboom!
(singing)
- Dumble...
- Oh no!
- Get off the car, Kucho.
- No, Uncle. I want to go with you.
Kids don't go to the forest. Do they?
Good boy, get off.
But I want to go with Jhinuk.
- Oh my God!
- Jhinuk?
- Let him come with us.
- Yes, a drive with Jhinuk Aunty.
- But we're going to the forest...
- Not aunty, only Jhinuk.
- Nakul Uncle, start the car.
- Yes, sir.
Start the car or you'll lose your job.
Let's go.
They are going on a quest for gold
in the forest.
Go, distract them.
(singing)
It's beautiful!
- Kucho, stop!
- Just look at him.
- I warned against this.
- But it's fun being in forest.
Kucho! Wait! Kucho!
Professor, this way.
I'll show you something interesting.
Elephants used to be tied up
to these pillars.
I've seen this emblem somewhere.
This is Durgeshgarh Estate's emblem.
It's everywhere.
Have you noticed
what is written below it?
That's Ramprasadi song.
There won't be time, Mother...
Durgagoti's dagger!
- What?
- But we don't have the dagger anymore, sir.
There's a replica.
No harm in trying.
One minute.
Hello. I'm calling from Bonpukuriya.
Don't you have a replica
of the Deb Roy dagger?
Yes... Can you bring it here
with you?
It's very urgent. It'll take you
around three hours to get here.
Yes, please.
I'll explain everything to you
when you get here.
The game is afoot.
Okay.
Call me the moment you reach.
Thank you.
Hello!
Dagger... replica... game...
Looks like everything
is going badaboom!
Have you paid attention
to the Durgeshgarh Estate's emblem?
Since I was a kid.
I'm Tarzan! I'm Mowgli!
Kucho, stop running!
Aabir, keep up.
Kucho, wait!
Kucho, don't run away.
Kucho, stop running!
He doesn't sit even for a moment.
I'm burning too many calories.
Kucho! Hey, Kucho! Stop!
Professor, this is
the Bhalook Dungri's mound.
You'll still find bears here.
Durgeshgarh Palace is on the other side
of this forest.
Where did these three disappear?
Dumble, Aabir's phone is unreachable.
Aabir! Jhinuk!
- That's why I didn't want to bring the kid.
- Sir, I'll check this side.
- Okay, call me once you find them.
- I'll go this way.
Aabir!
Kucho!
Jhinuk!
Damn!
Kucho!
These youngsters!
Jhinuk!
Aabir!
Did you find them?
They are nowhere to be seen.
This is not a good sign.
- What if they fall inside one of the caves...
- I don't know what'll happen...
I think we should go home
and let my elder brother know.
Goes without saying.
- Why did you bring Kucho?
- You saw how adamant he was.
Someone pushed you from behind?
I didn't even realise someone
was following me.
Be careful, Kucho!
No network.
That's why I couldn't call you.
- Did you get hurt, Sona'da?
- No...
I didn't get hurt at all.
I eat spinach like Popeye.
Give me a hand.
What will we do now?
Aabir, I think, this is the only way out.
I'll look after them.
You climb the wall carefully.
Hold on to Kucho.
Are you okay?
Okay.
Hold on to the roots.
Can't you shoot webs
like Spiderman?
It's okay. Just climb.
Be quiet now, Kucho.
Carefully.
Aabir!
- What is it?
- Hand.
Wait, I'll come up.
No need. I can do it.
Underwater kick, huh?
Now I'll cut these roots.
- Aabir!
- Hey! Hey!
- Hey, what are you doing?
- Stop it!
- Sona'da, help Aabir.
- Sona'da!
- Aabir!
Yeah, Phantom!
Hello?
Hello, Doctor!
We want the golden conch.
Who is this?
You've invited guests from Kolkata.
But you couldn't protect them.
What are you talking about?
Take the conch from your aunt.
And hand it over to us.
What?
Don't you want Kucho
to come back home?
He left such a long time back...
We'll be at the old temple
on the forest's edge.
Otherwise...
The bears at Bhalook Dungri...
Anything can happen.
And I'm sure you know
you can't inform the police.
Okay? Bye.
My God!
Why did you take the kid...
Exactly! They are dumb!
They don't have brains.
You're very smart.
You pretend to be a part of the family.
Didn't it occur to you not to take a kid
to the forest?
- Calm down...
- Why should I?
I kept warning you about the outsiders.
Now see the mess we're in.
It's my son.
I'll figure something out.
Stop crying.
I'll bring our son back.
But we won't give the conch.
- Shuli, they are our guests.
- So what?
Why do you invite such people?
What nonsense!
My son has been kidnapped.
Now the conch will disappear.
- But they did it for us...
- What did they do?
What did they do?
What's wrong with them?
Do you think they risked everything for us?
If they find the treasure,
they're going to keep it.
They are nothing but criminals, smugglers.
What are you saying, Shuli?
They are in danger.
Guests should behave like guests.
Or else, they'll be in danger.
They've crossed the limits.
Dumble, take the conch.
And keep it where they asked you
to keep it.
- Give it to me.
- Let go of the conch.
- Stop being immature.
- Let it go, brother.
- But you are being immature.
- Please keep quiet.
Another outsider you have encouraged.
Have you ever listened to me?
Have you ever heard me out?
You're fighting with me for three outsiders.
You'll find out it's not worth it.
- They don't get it.
- Let's talk later...
Shuli, don't discuss something
you don't understand.
If Subarna didn't find it,
you still wouldn't have the conch.
- Dumble, do as I say.
- She's right.
- Keep it exactly where they asked.
- They'll never understand.
Kalu, we'll have to find Kucho.
I'll find my son on my own. Okay.
But I'll see you.
Just wait.
Shuli!
You better hurry.
We'll join you.
This guy I tell you.
Jhinuk, I watched this in Mowgli.
Baloo the Bear.
- Kucho!
Wow! Real Baloo!
- Sona'da, it's a bear.
- Jhinuk, be careful.
Jhinuk, send Kucho here.
Jhinuk, oh no!
Go that way.
Jhinuk, don't be scared.
Play dead. Don't breathe.
Don't open your eyes. Close your eyes.
Aabir, do you see any stones?
Throw them at the wall.
- Shouldn't hit her.
- Okay.
Aabir! Jhinuk!
- Aabir!
- Get up!
Kick it down.
It'll break. Keep kicking.
Kucho! Come here!
Jhinuk, keep Kucho close.
Aabir, I think there's another way.
I can see light.
Let's go, Kucho!
Let me hold Kucho.
- Let's go.
- Come on.
This way.
- Come this way.
- Be careful.
- Let's go.
Watch your step.
What are you doing here, Dumble?
Sir, what are you doing here? Kucho?
- But I just left the conch...
- Conch?
They called and asked us to leave the conch
and take Kucho.
Who called you?
- Where is it?
- I just left it inside.
Come with me now.
Hold my hand, Kucho.
Where did you keep it?
Underwater kick?
Go!
- Let's go.
- Kucho, come.
Give me the keys for the bike.
I'm going ahead with Kucho.
Kucho!
- Jhinuk, come with me.
- Yeah.
Hurry.
They won't hurt Kucho, right?
- Subarno is there. He'll do something.
- Don't worry.
Nakul, get the car.
Jhinuk, that's their car.
- That's them. Stop the car.
- There they are.
Kucho! Get off the bike.
- Kucho!
- Mom!
Kucho, my baby...
Are you okay?
Did you get hurt?
You've got a cut here.
Tedback is a must.
If anything happened to Kucho today...
I would have killed Subarna and Apu.
Why are you staring at me.
Look at his wound.
Here you are.
Are you okay?
Aunt, the conch.
Hail Goddess Durga!
Subarna, you're a part of the family now.
And family members become strangers.
Captain America, are you feeling better
after mom's hugs?
Mom, when the bear came in front of Jhinuk
she fell down.
It was sniffing her.
Have you watched
'Beauty and the Beast'?
No need to go to the forest
to see beasts anymore.
They are all around us.
I know you meant it for me.
I'm the black sheep
of the family anyway.
Let's get out of here.
Come.
- Go with them.
- Okay. Let's go.
Sona'da, Operation Durgeshgarh dismissed?
No, no.
The Durgeshgarh emblem...
The black moon on top
then the water
the lotus at the bottom
and two lions on either side and
the dagger...
I'm certain, there's treasure hidden
somewhere in Durgeshgarh.
- If the black moon is Krishna Chandra...
- Exactly.
You said there's a statue
of Krishna Chandra here.
That's right in front of the palace.
The emblem is etched on the pedestal.
I can take you there
with my eyes closed.
Why don't you just leave, Apu?
The festival is over.
What else?
You don't have to be
their local guide anymore.
We're here.
Frankly speaking, they are our guests.
This is our estate.
We'll take care of this. Okay.
Please leave.
That's it then.
Shuli will take you there.
I should leave now.
I can beat the traffic.
Bye, Aabir.
Come to my Kolkata home with Jhinuk.
Say something.
We'll eat a lot!
Bye, Professor. Dumble...
- Bless me, Aunt. Goodbye.
- Take care.
It's a very busy life in the city.
The festival was an excuse to visit.
But that's gone too now.
Bye.
Good.
So, Professor Sen.
You should head back to the city too.
The festival is over.
We will find the hidden treasure
if there's any.
Oh and Aabir! No vegetarian food today.
There's fish and mutton.
Please eat before leaving.
Wait, Subarna.
Shuli, there's a limit
to how rude you can be.
Who do you think you are?
I'll decide when they'll leave
and where they'll stay.
Right.
Durgagoti's property will be divided
into four parts not three.
- Shuli!
- Just shut up!
- Shuli.
- What is he saying?
- Are you okay in the head?
- Yes, I am.
Do you think your doctor's mind will be
enough to handle the hidden treasure?
Or his knowledge of history will help?
This is something different.
I'm a civil engineer.
I'll do whatever needs to be done.
Just trust me.
Professor Sen, why don't you leave?
Subarna.
Don't show off your education.
No one could decipher Durgagoti's hints
for so many years.
- Please go ahead, Subarna.
- What do you mean?
I know you'll be successful.
My blessings are with you.
You're crossing all limits, Aunt!
- Dumble.
- What the hell?
Yes, Aunt.
Go with them.
Keep this with you.
Aren't you going to say anything?
Keep this.
- See you soon, dear.
- Bye, Aunt.
Wow!
Let's go, Aabir.
I'll see how this ends.
Let's see who finds
the hidden treasure first.
May the Goddess be with them.
Sona'da, Aabir, Jhinuk
The trio is back
On a quest to find hidden treasure
Aabir, stop the car.
What is it, Dumble?
I know a short cut through here.
Show us. Let's go.
Watch your step.
This way.
Sir!
I'll show you!
Yes!
Sir!
Aparup!
Apu?
The family that accepted you
as their own son...
Aren't you ashamed of betraying them?
Aparup Chandra is intelligent
that's why he depended on your brain.
Moreover, you're not a detective.
Naturally, you trusted me.
Exactly.
I should have never trusted you.
That's what happens.
Good people are born
to make mistakes.
Hey, Nakul.
Show them what you got.
Aabir, don't!
Aabir!
No! No! No!
What an idiot!
Hey! No! No! No!
That's not looking good on you.
Drop it.
Come on. Do it now.
All of Krishna Chandra's wealth
will be mine.
Only mine!
I've given up a lot, Mr. Sen.
I didn't join my family business.
I've studied this family's history
for years.
Just so Krishna Chandra's
hidden treasure will be mine.
Today is my day!
What is this?
This is the key.
And there's the lock.
Nothing in life is meaningless.
Yes!
Sona'da...
Sona'da!
Now what?
How will I get in?
Damn it! Where's the key?
What's the matter, Mr. Black Sheep?
Is that all?
You thought you'll scare us with your gun
and the treasure will be yours.
Okay, I accept that you're smart
and I'm dumb.
Open the door.
Why should I do it
for someone like you?
Of course, you will!
Tagore had written...
"Tigers in the forest
Birds in trees".
'Bears live in caves."
- And here is Kali.
- Kalu, you?
Sir, please don't tell them.
- Sir, please don't.
- Shut up.
Just shut up!
Not another word.
Open the door now!
Open the door!
- Move aside.
- What?
Knowing the history is not enough
to get the treasure.
You must know the ancient texts too.
Are Goddess Durga's animals
in the right order?
Durga? Animals?
Combination lock. Move!
The owl moves to the left.
The swan replaces the owl.
Peacock comes in where the swan was.
And the rat in the peacock's place.
So, owl on the left,
the mouse below it.
The swan and peacock on the right.
And the lion in the middle.
So what?
You've waited so long
for the hidden treasure.
Just wait a little longer.
Now the lion will slay the buffalo demon.
It's really chilly down here.
That means the water from the tank upstairs
is flowing down.
The legend of Krishna Chandra
comes alive in the emblem above
The lotus blooms in the hidden recesses
of the cave
The mystical darkness
engulfs the sleepy cave
Durgeshgarh resurfaces
from the hidden abyss
Durgagoti's secret chamber!
Yes!
Can you understand the meaning
of Durgeshgarh's emblem now?
The statue of Krishna Chandra above
and the clay lotus below.
Krishna Chandra and Durgagoti,
the closest of friends...
Scared of being killed by Mir Qasim
all the wealth he received
from Jagat Seth
Krishna Chandra hid it with Durgagoti.
And the Durga festival
was also initiated by him.
And Durgagoti hid the clues in the rituals.
Hey, Mr. Sen.
I'm not here for your stories.
Where is the hidden treasure?
Right here.
The gold jewellery on the idol.
You should know gold pretty well.
I have grown up with gold.
So don't try to teach me about it.
Where is the real treasure?
Where's Krishna Chanra's gems and jewels?
The way you've become your greed
will never be satiated.
Why are you so greedy?
Greed? Greed?
Aabir!
Don't try anything smart.
No sudden moves!
If I don't find the treasure,
I'll sacrifice all of you.
- Kalu?
- Yes, boss!
Sona'da!
- Where are you going?
- Catch him!
He's the one who stole the dagger.
- What are you saying?
- He is with him.
How dare you?
I trusted you.
Arrest him.
Trishulpani!
The chief conspirator is here.
What are you saying, Professor Sen?
Unfortunately so.
Unbelievable!
Apu, my family...
I'm the bad boy of the family.
Professor Sen, then the dagger?
We don't need the replica anymore,
Inspector Sarkar.
We've found the real dagger.
But first come here.
- You've met him before, right?
- Bonbihari Giri?
Correct.
Believers say...
if the incantations are not done properly
the gods don't respond.
Sometimes...
it's the other way around.
Arrest him, Inspector Sarkar.
But just wait for a bit.
He's always lusted after
Durgeshgarh's hidden treasure.
He won't get his hands on it.
He can, at least, see it.
Trishulpani!
This is the Deb Roy
family's hidden treasure.
The hidden treasure of Durgeshgarh.
Come up.
Hopefully you remember
which weapon is carried in which hand.
You didn't even learn it.
Dumble?
Don't remember all of them.
If you don't learn the songs
or see the paintings...
Which animal goes with which deity
or where do the weapons go...
If you don't know these,
the door to the secret chamber won't open.
Now let's see, "How it all comes together
To become one whole."
- Mr. TMT!
- Yes.
Do you remember the order of the weapons?
Yes!
The disc goes on top.
Below that the thunder.
Next is the trident.
Then the lotus.
The spectre at the end.
The snake at the bottom.
The axe above it.
Bow and arrow.
- Jhinuk?
- Yes, Sona'da.
The conch.
Of course, Sona'da.
Come, Trishulpani.
This is yours.
Please.
Hidden treasure!
Thank you so much, Inspector!
Please don't embarass me.
I am feeling relieved
that I could give you your treasure back.
Safe travels.
- Okay, Mr. Sen.
- Thank you very much.
- Let's meet in Kolkata.
- Definitely!
Goodbye.
- Jhinuk!
- Yes.
Come here.
This is a gift for your upcoming wedding
from the Deb Roy family.
Take it.
You have to accept gifts from elders.
- Please take it.
- Come on.
- What about Aabir's gift?
- Right.
Aabir, come here.
Go on...
You don't have to do that.
But we'll have to hand this over
to the government.
We know,
it's the Goverment of India's property.
So what?
There's no harm in giving them
a couple of jewelleries.
I'm sure even after the government takes most of
it, we'll have enough for the festival expenses.
That's okay but I was thinking this time...
I'll come back for good.
- What?
- Really?
- Shuli?
- I've thought about it.
- Take a look at this...
- But why did he...
Hello?
Sir, I've submitted my dissertation.
Thank you so much for your help.
I'm coming to Kolkata on a project, sir.
Missed the festival a lot.
Are you there?
Hello!